# 134. Gas Station

{% embed url="https://leetcode.com/problems/gas-station/" %}

There are `n` gas stations along a circular route, where the amount of gas at the `ith` station is `gas[i]`.

You have a car with an unlimited gas tank and it costs `cost[i]` of gas to travel from the `ith` station to its next `(i + 1)th` station. You begin the journey with an empty tank at one of the gas stations.

Given two integer arrays `gas` and `cost`, return _the starting gas station's index if you can travel around the circuit once in the clockwise direction, otherwise return_ `-1`. If there exists a solution, it is **guaranteed** to be **unique**

&#x20;

**Example 1:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: gas = [1,2,3,4,5], cost = [3,4,5,1,2]
</strong><strong>Output: 3
</strong><strong>Explanation:
</strong>Start at station 3 (index 3) and fill up with 4 unit of gas. Your tank = 0 + 4 = 4
Travel to station 4. Your tank = 4 - 1 + 5 = 8
Travel to station 0. Your tank = 8 - 2 + 1 = 7
Travel to station 1. Your tank = 7 - 3 + 2 = 6
Travel to station 2. Your tank = 6 - 4 + 3 = 5
Travel to station 3. The cost is 5. Your gas is just enough to travel back to station 3.
Therefore, return 3 as the starting index.
</code></pre>

**Example 2:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: gas = [2,3,4], cost = [3,4,3]
</strong><strong>Output: -1
</strong><strong>Explanation:
</strong>You can't start at station 0 or 1, as there is not enough gas to travel to the next station.
Let's start at station 2 and fill up with 4 unit of gas. Your tank = 0 + 4 = 4
Travel to station 0. Your tank = 4 - 3 + 2 = 3
Travel to station 1. Your tank = 3 - 3 + 3 = 3
You cannot travel back to station 2, as it requires 4 unit of gas but you only have 3.
Therefore, you can't travel around the circuit once no matter where you start.
</code></pre>

&#x20;

**Constraints:**

* `n == gas.length == cost.length`
* `1 <= n <= 105`
* `0 <= gas[i], cost[i] <= 104`

## Solution

```python
class Solution:
    def canCompleteCircuit(self, gas: List[int], cost: List[int]) -> int:
        if not gas or not cost:
            return -1
        curSum = 0
        minSum = math.inf
        for i in range(len(gas)):
            curSum += gas[i] - cost[i]
            if curSum <= minSum:
                minSum = curSum
        if minSum >= 0:
            return 0
        if curSum < 0:
            return -1

        for i in range(len(gas)-1, 0, -1):
            minSum += gas[i] - cost[i]
            if minSum >= 0:
                return i
        return -1
```
